#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Animal communication is a complex and varied process.
 There are myriad different communication patterns underpinned by many different
 physical mechanisms.
 Of these patterns, vocalizations are of particular note because they are
 the primary device by which humans exchange information with one other.
 Throughout mammals, the average fundamental frequency 
\begin_inset Formula $f$
\end_inset

 of a given species vocalization and its average mass 
\begin_inset Formula $M$
\end_inset

 are known to obey a scaling law of the form 
\begin_inset Formula $f\propto M^{-0.4}$
\end_inset

.
 Vocalizations of this type are in the sonic range and are all a result
 of oscillations of the vocal fold tissue in the larynges of the animals.
 Certain types of rodent vocalizations are notable in two respects: first,
 they lie in the ultrasonic frequency range of 20-80 kHz and, second, they
 completely shatter the above scaling law.
 These observations and other experimental studies have led to the conjecture
 that rodent ultrasonic vocalizations are the result of a whistle mechanism
 as opposed to vibrating vocal folds.
 Over the past year, I continued my investigation of rat ultrasonic vocal
 production using mathematical, numerical, and experimental techniques with
 the intent of developing a full mathematical theory of this whistle mechanism.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the more salient properties of the ultrasonic calls are points at
 which the frequency discontinuously jumps up or down.
 I have spent a significant amount of time investigating these jumps as
 their mechanism is currently unknown.
 Although, upon examination of the spectrogram, the jumps appear discontinuous,
 I believed it was worthwhile to further investigate this observation.
 To accomplish this the delay embedded manifolds of several calls were calculate
d.
 These manifolds are diffeomorphic to the trajectories in phase space taken
 by the calls and circumvent the need to calculate numerical derivatives
 of noisy data.
 Is is readily apparent that the man 
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "Dropbox/Work/Paper Preperation/trp"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
